https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/06/beginner-friendly-project-cat-and-dog-classification-using-cnn/

Neural networks can be trained by using batches of images, each of them having a label to identify the real nature of the image.

Batch:
A batch can contain few tenths to hundreds of images.
For each and every image, the network prediction is compared with the corresponding existing label, and the distance between network prediction and the truth is evaluated for the whole batch. 
Then, the network parameters are modified to minimize the distance and thus the prediction capability of the network is increased. 
The training process continues for every batch similarly.

Filter:
CNN does the processing of Images with the help of matrixes of weights known as filters.
They detect low-level features like vertical and horizontal edges etc. 
Through each layer, the filters recognize high-level features.
For loss function, we are using Binary cross-entropy to compare the class output to each of the predicted probabilities. 
Then it calculates the penalization score based on the total distance from the expected value.
The filter is always smaller than input data and the dot product is performed between input and filter array.

Image augmentation:
Image augmentation is a method of applying different kinds of transformation to original images resulting in multiple transformed copies of the same image. 
The images are different from each other in certain aspects because of shifting, rotating, flipping techniques. 
So, we are using the Keras ImageDataGenerator class to augment our images.

Activation Function:
The main need for activation function is to add non-linearity into the neural network.

Pooling:
pooling basically helps reduce the number of parameters and computations present in the network. 
It progressively reduces the spatial size of the network and thus controls overfitting. 
There are two types of operations in this layer; Average pooling and Maximum pooling.